Now we have taken a look at our
data layer attributes and
properties and hopefully you
have changed the names of all
your layers so they're nice and
clear what they are.
We're going to learn how to
change the symbology of our
vector data layers in this video
so we can turn off any of the
raster layers that we have on
the two raster layers.
We can turn them off because we
won't need them in this
tutorial, and we'll just take a
look at our three vector data
layers.
So we've got the biomonitoring
points, the roads and the
polygon representing the Ziama
protected area.
We're going to look at the
symbology of the Ziama protected
area in this video.
So at the moment you can see
we've got a pink Polygon with a
thin black outline representing
our protected area.
But we're going to change this.
So to change the symbology we
need to go back into our layer
properties window again.
So hopefully you can remember
how to do that.
We can right click on our layer,
so we're going to right click on
the Ziama PA layer and now we
can go into properties.
You can also do this though just
by double clicking on your data
layer and then it brings up the
layer properties window.
So now we're in properties, we
can go into this symbology tab
and so first of all within this
symbology tab we're going to
take a look at the drop down box
at the top.
So this is allowing us to choose
from a selection of symbology
types.
We have it as a single symbol at
the moment which is the best way
to represent our single Polygon,
but sometimes you'll need to
change this option depending on
the data layer that you're
working with.
Underneath this drop down box we
have our symbol here so this is
going to give us a preview.
If we change any of the
symbology settings in here it's
going to give us a preview of
how it's going to look and then
if we're happy with it, we can
click apply and it will change
the symbology that we have on
our actual map frame.
Underneath we have the option
for unit, so the size unit of
our symbol that we can change if
we want and in opacity we can
change the how transparent our
symbol is.
So you can see that the preview
at the the symbol preview is
changing and then in this box we
can change the colour of our
symbol.
Underneath these we have the
favourites.
So this is a collection of
gallery symbols which are pre
made symbology that we can
choose from.
So let's have a look at what we
have.
Let's go with the blue outline
symbol.
But if you aren't happy with
this and you wanted to change it
further then we can click in the
box here where it says simple
line.
We can click on where it says
simple line and this will bring
up more options for us to
change.
So we can change the colour of
the outline in here.
Let's change it to black and we
could also change how wide the
outline is.
So if we apply what we've done
already, we can see that it's
quite a thick outline to our
Polygon.
So let's change this to make it
a bit thinner.
We'll go in stroke width and
let's put it as 0.5 instead.
And then hit apply and we can
see that we have a thinner
outline for our symbol.
And now we can click OK.
And so let's turn back on our
other data layers to see how it
looks.
And we can see that it's
blending in a bit with our land
cover raster.
But don't worry about that
because we're going to change
how the land cover raster looks
in the next video.
And then our Polygon layer is
going to stand out more.
So that's how to change vector
data symbology.